# Movie-Dashboard
This is a project I completed for a class where the assignment was to make a Tableau dashboard for a mobile phone from the movie data I was given. The dashboard I made has two pages. The first page is meant to help people decide what movie to watch by allowing them to pick a director, a genre, and set a runtime range and it will return the top four highest rated movies based on critic reviews. The second page gives insights into the history of the movie industry and allows the user to see revenue generation by budget as well as which genres were most popular for a given year. The dashboard can be found in the file `Movies Dashboard.twbx`.

## Data
The data was fairly clean and contained information about a wide variety of movies that were released from 1934-2016. The data contained information on the financial performance of the movies as well as critic and user reviews that I used to make the majority of the dashboard. I also added Consumer Price Index data in order to standardize profits across the years. I knew that I wanted to include the posters of the movies in the first page of my dashboard to make it more visually appealing for the user. In order to add the movie posters, I used an API key from [The Movie Database](https://www.themoviedb.org/?language=en-US) that had URLs for the posters for all of the movies in my dataset. I wrote a python script that matched the release year and title of the movies in my dataset to the movies in The Movie Data Base and then added a column to the dataset that contained the URL of the movie in that row. I was then able to use the URL of the posters to display the movie poster in my dashboard. The python script can be found in the file `Movie_Poster_URLs_Script.ipynb` but I have removed my API key from the code. If you would like to run it, you can get a unique API key from The Movie Database for free. The final dataset including the CPI and movie poster URLs can be found in the file `movie_cpi_combined.csv`.
